# Week beginning Monday, 3-31-2014

## Teams

 - Even when people ask for feedback, that doesn't mean they want it raw and wriggling. Even people who you see giving frequent direct feedback to others don't always take it well. Remember what I learned in college: Red-penning a student's work usually isn't the most effective way to teach
 - When someone on another team tells you they, too, are frustrated by something, dig deeper.
 - Don't put up with bullshit where "culture" is blamed for an org's problems. Culture is just the org's routines/habits, which are dictated by people. If culture is blamed, dig deeper and find the humans responsible.

## Mongo

 - MMS Saves the day again with a lock % alert
 - For aggregations on large datasets, always constrain the number of fields a user can aggregate on, else misery ensues


## Clojure

 - Map access takes a default if nil, ie: `(let [max-field-count (:max-group-fields slicedef 5)]` will return 5 if max-group-fields does not exist in the slicedef struct

## Sauce / Browser testing

 - When building (or reading other people's) browser tests, be sure that `click` actions are followed by an appropriate Wait. In our case, it was obscured because of using gherkin and consequently wasn't obvious when clicks were leading directly into content checks. The problem was masked by explicit time.sleep calls, which are bad.
 - browsermob proxy for HAR looks awesome. Need to investigate further
 - a lot more about sauce config: http://support.saucelabs.com/entries/23388772-Tips-for-lean-speedy-tests and https://saucelabs.com/docs/additional-config#disable-screenshots
  - how to mark a job as failed: https://saucelabs.com/docs/additional-config#alternative-annotation-methods
    - https://gist.github.com/santiycr/1644439
 - even the mozilla web qa team uses explicit sleeps in their templates: https://github.com/mozilla/mozwebqa-test-templates/blob/master/pages/page.py

## IDE

 - You'd think by now I'd know this IDE inside/out like I knew Eclipse. Sadly, no.
 - Re-introduced to Live templates and macros this week. Made live templates for daily task stuff, and made a macro to run my Golang SumDay program without needing to copy (the macro copies for me).

## AWS

  - the new(ish) high-mem instance types don't map 1:1 feature/price
  - the new(ish) high-mem instance types don't appear to be available as spot instances. I'll follow up on this

## Deploy

  - In the 'stuff you should never need' category: had to set up a nightly job that does nothing else but test SSH access between jenkins and target servers, due to the build user's ssh password expiring